This is the device on which
we carried out the reverse osmosis process,
as a result of which we concentrated the juice.
This is a membrane,
which served us to concentrate the juice.
We put her in the cylinder.
We closed it all tight
and here gas was supplied - argon.
The gas brought pressure on the juice,
as a result
in the reverse osmosis process
water passed through the membrane
and she was dripping at us with this tube.
The whole had to be mixed up.
The pressure that was used
it was much more than the osmotic pressure,
in this case, we squeezed the juice
you can say so hard
that we were squeezing water out of it.
The first cylinder is located
our starting juice. It's pale pink.
The second cylinder is located
juice after the reverse osmosis process.
It's red and you can buy the juice in the store.
The third cylinder is located
just the water itself.
It has neither taste nor smell.
As we can see, the process of reverse osmosis serves not only
for concentrating the juice, but above all to
receiving clean water.
It is used for desalination of water in areas
where is its deficit.
In this way, drinking water is obtained.
What is reverse osmosis?
In nature, everything strives to achieve a state of equilibrium.
When we combine two solutions with different concentrations,
after a while we will be able to notice
that despite the lack of mixing
the concentration in the whole vessel is even.
When two solutions with different concentrations
will be separated by a semipermeable membrane
- means that they can go through only
small solvent molecules -
we will be able to notice
that concentrations on both sides of the membrane
after some time they evened out.
It happened because the solvent molecules
passed from one side of the membrane
- that is where there were more solvent molecules,
and lower concentration -
to the other side, where there was a higher concentration
that is, less solvent.
This is called osmosis.
Solvent molecules during this process
exert pressure on the semi-permeable membrane,
which is called osmotic pressure.
When the pressure is applied to the system
than osmotic pressure, the process will be reversed
and the solvent molecules will start to pass
on this side of the membrane, where there are more molecules of solvent,
i.e. lower concentration, which means further
concentration of a more concentrated solution.
This process is called reverse osmosis.
More films on the channel of the Students' Scientific Circle of Chemists
at the Silesian University of Technology.